Decision making has become easier due to advancement in machine learning and data mining. Machine learning algorithms have helped to solve a lot of real-world problems in many fields. Taking about medical field, data mining, deep learning has made it possible to process huge data and provide more efficient health care to the patients. The types of diseases are increasing day by day and it has been necessary for people to know about the disease. The early-stage prediction of a disease based on the symptoms becomes difficult for the patient alone. The information available online may always not be correct and may lead to tension and unnecessary panic. To avoid this people should look for their health-related queries on the right place. Thus, to make it easier for people to predict the right disease, development of a machine learning based system has become important. The system collects the symptoms from the user and predicts the correct disease. This will help people to recognize the disease at an earlier stage and take the further decision based on it. 

This system mainly focuses on simplifying process of disease prediction which generally takes a lot more time and needs knowledge of talented doctor. We have provided a system where we can predict the disease of a person from the symptoms that he’s facing. This will be helpful to those who seek help online and at any time he can consult the doctor. The rush time at hospitals can be avoided by this.  There are multiple ML algorithms which could generate result if used alone. But to ensure and get accurate re sult, we have used 4 different algorithms to predict the disease. The algorithms that we have used are Decision Tree, Random Forest, Naïve Bayes, k Nearest Neighbours. We predict the disease using above mentioned classifiers. The use of various algorithms helps in giving maximum accuracy. The accuracies are compared and according the model is trained. This trained machine learning model is used in the system.  Thus, the higher accuracy makes the system efficient for patients and then they can con y disease. sult a doctor accordingly. The dataset used has about 5000 records with 132 symptoms and 41 diseases. Data cleaning and data reduction is performed on dataset to avoid overfitting, the algorithms are applied and at the end the model predicts the most 
